Hello, my name is Steve.
I'm an engineer at Apple.
Hi, I'm Paul.
I'm also an engineer.
In this video, we are going to walk you
through a deep dive into one
of the new aspects of Core ML,
converting PyTorch models to Core ML.
[Transcript missing]
We've expanded support for the
libraries most commonly used
by the deep learning community.
We've redesigned the converter
architecture to improve user experience,
leveraging a new
in-memory representation.
And we've unified the API so
there's a single call to invoke
conversion from any model source.
If you haven't already seen it,
I definitely recommend you check out
the video that goes into the details
of this new converter architecture.
But in this video,
I'm going to focus on model conversion,
starting with the model built in
the PyToRch deep learning framework.
[Transcript missing]
Now the question is,
how do you convert that PyTorch
model into a Core ML model?
Well, the old Core ML Converter required
you to export your model to
ONNX as a step in the process.
And if you've used that converter,
you might have run into
some of its limitations.
ONNX is an open standard,
and so it can be slow to evolve
and introduce new features.
Compounding that,
ML frameworks like PyTorch need
time to add support for exporting
their latest model features to ONNX.
So with the old converter,
you might have found yourself
with a PyTorch model that
you couldn't export to ONNX,
blocking its conversion to Core ML.
[Transcript missing]
will walk through the different ways of
converting a PyTorch model into Core ML,
including some real-world
conversion examples.
And finally, I'll share some helpful tips
for you to follow if you run
into trouble along the way.
So now let's dive into the
new conversion process.
Starting with the PyToRch
model you want to convert,
you'll use PyToRch's JIT module
to convert to a representation
called TorchScript.
If you're curious,
JIT is an acronym that stands
for "just in time." Then with
a TorchScript model in hand,
you'll invoke the new Core ML Converter
to generate an ML model,
which you can drop into your app.
Later in the video,
I'll dig into what that
TorchScript conversion
process looks like,
But now let's look at how the
new Core ML Converter works.
The converter is written in Python,
and invoking it only takes
a couple lines of code.
You simply provide it with a model,
which can either be a TorchScript object
or the path to one saved on disk,
and a description of
the inputs to the model.
You can also include some information
about the outputs of the model,
but that's optional.
The converter works by iterating over
the operations in the TorchScript graph
and converting them one by one
to their Core ML equivalent.
Now, sometimes a model might include
a custom operation that the
converter doesn't understand.
But that's okay.
The converter is designed
to be extensible,
so it's easy to add
definitions for new operations.
In many cases,
you can express that operation as
a combination of existing ones,
which we call a composite op.
But if that isn't sufficient,
you can also write a custom
Swift implementation and
target that during conversion.
I won't get into the details of
how to do that in this video,
but please check out our online
resources for examples and walkthroughs.
Now that I've given an overview
of the whole conversion process,
it's time to circle back and dig
into how to get a TorchScript model
from your PyToRch model.
There are two ways PyToRch can do this.
The first is called tracing,
and the second is called scripting.
[Transcript missing]
So what does this call actually do?
The act of tracing runs an example
input through a forward pass of the
model and captures the operations
that are invoked as the input makes
its way through the model's layers.
The collection of all those
operations then becomes the
TorchScript representation of the model.
[Transcript missing]
Let's make all of this a little more
concrete by working through an example.
I'd like to introduce my colleague, Paul,
who will take you through the full
process of converting a segmentation
model from PyTorch to Core ML.
Thanks, Steve.
Suppose I have a segmentation model,
and I would like it to run on-device.
If you aren't familiar with
what a segmentation model does,
it takes an image and assigns
a class probability score
to each pixel of that image.
So how would I get my
model running on-device?
I'm going to convert my
model into a Core ML model.
To do this,
I first trace my PyToRch model
to turn it into TorchScript form
using PyToRch's JIT tracing module.
Then, I use the new Core ML Converter
to convert the TorchScript model
into a Core ML model.
Finally, I will show off how the
resulting Core ML model
integrates seamlessly into Xcode.
Let's see what this
process looks like in code.
[Transcript missing]
Next, I load in the ResNet101
segmentation model from TorchVision,
and a sample input.
In this case, an image of a dog and cat.
PyTorch models take in tensor objects,
not pill image objects.
So I convert the image to a
tensor with transforms.toTensor.
The model also expects an extra dimension
in the tensor denoting the batch size,
so I add that in as well.
As mentioned in the slides,
the Core ML Converter
accepts a TorchScript model.
To obtain this, I use the torch.jit
module's trace method,
which converts a PyTorch
model to a TorchScript model.
Tracing has thrown an exception.
As it says in the exception method,
only tensors or tuples of tensors
can be output from traced functions.
This is a limitation of
PyToRch's JIT module.
The problem here is that my
model is returning a dictionary.
[Transcript missing]
Here, I declare my class wrapper that
inherits from PyToRch's module class.
I define a model attribute
which contains ResNet-101,
as used above.
[Transcript missing]
Now that the model returns a
tensor and not a dictionary,
it will successfully trace.
[Transcript missing]
I define my input as an image type,
with preprocessing that normalizes the
image with ImageNet statistics and scales
its values down to lie between 0 and 1.
This preprocessing is
what ResNet 101 expects.
[Transcript missing]
After conversion,
I'll set the metadata of my model so
it can be understood by other programs,
such as Xcode.
I set the type of my model to
segmentation and enumerate the
classes in my model's order.
So, does my converted model work?
I can easily visualize my
model's output through Xcode.
First, I'll save my model.
Now all I need to do is click
on my saved model in Finder,
and it will be opened by Xcode.
Here I can view its metadata,
including input shapes and types.
To visualize the model's output,
I'll go to the Preview tab and drag
in my sample image of a dog and cat.
Looks like my model is successfully
segmenting the pets in this image.
ResNet-101 was able to be traced,
but some models cannot just be traced.
To explain how to get these
other models to convert,
I'll kick it back to Steve.
Thanks, Paul.
Okay,
I think we have a pretty good handle
on how conversion works using tracing.
But PyTorch offers a second
way to get TorchScript.
So now let's dig into that one,
which is called scripting.
Scripting works by taking a PyTorch
model and directly compiling
into TorchScript operations.
Remember, tracing captured the model
as data flowed through it.
But like tracing,
scripting a model is also really easy.
Simply invoke the "script"
method of PyTorch's JIT module
and provide it with a model.
OK, I've shown you two different ways
to get a Tor script representation,
and you might be wondering when
to use one versus the other.
One case where you must use scripting
is if the model includes control flow.
Let's look at an example
to understand why.
Here, this model has branches and loops,
and scripting will capture
all of it because it is
directly compiling the model.
If we traced the model,
what we get is only the path through
the model for the given input,
which you can see doesn't
capture the whole model.
If you do need to script a model,
you'll usually get the best result
if you trace as much of the model
as possible and script only the
parts of the model that need it.
This is because tracing
usually produces a simpler
representation than scripting does.
Let's see how to apply this
idea by looking at some code.
In this example,
I've got a model that runs
some chunk of code a fixed
number of times inside a loop.
I've isolated the body of the
loop into something that can
easily be traced on its own,
and then I can apply scripting
to the model as a whole.
What we're basically doing is
limiting the scripting to just the
bits of control flow that need it,
and then tracing everything else.
This mixing of tracing and
scripting works because they both
will skip over code that's already
been converted to TorchScript.
Now it's time to go through a
concrete example that uses scripting.
I'll hand it back over to Paul,
who will walk you through
converting a language model.
Hey there!
Suppose I have a sentence completion
model that I want to convert into a
Core ML model so it can run on device.
For some context,
sentence completion is a task that
involves taking a sentence fragment
and using a model to predict the words
that are likely to come after it.
So what does this look like
in terms of computation steps?
I'll start with a few words of a
sentence fragment and pass them
through what's called an encoder
that translates those words into a
representation my model can understand.
In this case,
a sequence of integer tokens.
Next, I'll pass that sequence
of tokens into my model,
which will predict the
next token in the sequence.
I will continue feeding my model
the partially constructed sentence,
appending new tokens to the end,
until my model predicts a
special end-of-sentence token,
which means my sentence is completed.
[Transcript missing]
The middle part of this diagram,
completing the list of tokens,
is what I will convert
into a Core ML model.
The encoder and decoder
are handled separately.
Let's make sure we understand what's
going on by looking at some pseudocode.
The core of my model is
my next token predictor.
For this,
I will use Hugging Face's GPT-2 model.
The predictor takes a list of
tokens as inputs and gives me a
prediction for the next token.
Next, I'll wrap some control flow around
the predictor to continue until
I see the end-of-sentence token.
Inside the loop,
I append the predicted token to the
running list and use that as the
input to my predictor on every loop.
When my predictor returns
the end-of-sentence token,
I'll return the complete
sentence for decoding.
Now to see this whole process in code,
let's dive into the Jupyter Notebook.
[Transcript missing]
My model inherits from Torch.module
and contains attributes for
the end-of-sentence token,
the next token predictor model,
and the default token,
denoting the beginning of a sentence.
In its forward method,
just like in the slides,
I've written a loop body that takes a
list of tokens and predicts the next one.
The loop continues until the end
of sentence token is generated.
When this happens,
we will return the sentence.
As mentioned,
my next token predictor will be GPT-2,
which will reside in the loop body.
I'm going to follow the practice
of tracing the loop body,
separate from scripting the whole model.
So I'll run the JIT tracer on
only my next token predictor.
It takes a list of tokens as inputs,
so for tracing, I'll just pass in a
list of random tokens.
I can see that the
tracer emitted a warning,
telling me this trace might
not generalize to other inputs.
Note that this warning is
from the PyTorch's JIT tracer,
and not Core ML.
It will be explained what's going on here
in the troubleshooting section later,
but for now, I'll ignore this warning,
since there isn't actually a problem.
With the bulk of the loop body traced,
I can instantiate my sentence finishing
model and apply the JIT scripter to
prepare it for conversion to Core ML.
Now with my TorchScript model,
I convert it to a Core ML model
just like in the segmentation demo.
Now I'll see if my model
can finish a sentence.
I create a sentence fragment.
In this case,
"The Manhattan Bridge is..." Then I run
it through GPT-2's included encoder
to get the fragment's encoding,
and then convert that list of
tokens into a Torch tensor.
[Transcript missing]
Nice.
The Core ML model was able
to complete the sentence.
Looks like it generated a statement
about the Manhattan Bridge.
You might run into bumps along the road
as you trace and script your models
to get them into a Core ML format.
I'll hand it back to Steve to
help you along the way.
Before we wrap up,
I want to review the snags we hit when
converting PyTorch models to Core ML,
and go over some troubleshooting
tips and best practices.
Thinking back to the segmentation demo,
remember we encountered
an error during tracing.
This was because our model
returned to dictionary,
and JIT tracing can only handle
tensors or tuples of tensors.
The solution we showed in the demo was
to create a thin wrapper around the model
that unpacks the model's native outputs.
Remember, in this example,
the model returned a dictionary,
so here we're accessing the dictionary
key that represents the inference
results and returning that tensor.
Of course,
this idea also works if we want
to access and return multiple
items from the dictionary,
or if we need to unpack
other types of containers.
Now during the language model demo,
we encountered a tracer warning
that said the trace might not
generalize to other inputs,
and we see the tracer helpfully
print the troublesome line of code.
So what's actually going on?
If we look at the model source
code to understand the warning,
we see that the model is
slicing one tensor based on
the size of another tensor.
Getting the size of a tensor
results in a bare Python value,
in other words, not a PyTorch tensor,
and the tracer is warning that it
can't trace the math operations being
performed on these bare Python values.
However, in this case,
the tracer is a little too
aggressive in emitting this warning,
and there isn't actually a problem.
A good rule of thumb when it comes
to tracing code that operates on
bare Python values is that only
built-in Python operations will be
captured correctly by the tracer.
Here are a few examples
to help explain this idea.
Let's think through these and figure out,
based on that rule of thumb,
if they will be traced correctly or not.
The first example is very similar
to what we saw during the demo,
and will result in a correct trace,
since a built-in operation, in this case,
addition, is being applied.
[Transcript missing]
But the third example
won't trace correctly.
The JIT tracer doesn't know what the
library function math.squareRoot does,
and the traced graph will have a
constant value recorded instead
of the operations to compute
the tensor size and square root.
But with a simple fix to the model
to replace math.square root with
Python's built-in power operator,
this will result in a correct trace.
Now let's look at a case where
scripting a model can fail.
This model starts with an empty
list and successively appends
a fixed set of integers to it.
Keep in mind,
this isn't a terribly useful model.
I'm just using it to
illustrate a failure condition.
If I script this model,
I'll get a runtime error that
hints at a type mismatch.
The JIT scripter needs type information
to turn a model into TorchScript,
and does a pretty good job
inferring object types from context.
However,
there are times when that's not possible.
And if the scripter can't
figure out an object's type,
it assumes the object is a tensor.
In this case,
it's assuming this list is a list
of tensors while it's actually
being built as a list of integers.
So what can I do to
help the scripter out?
Well, I can either include meaningful
initialization of the variable,
or I can use type annotations.
Here, I've adjusted the model
to show examples of both.
There's one last thing I want to mention.
You always want to make sure your model
is in evaluation mode before tracing.
This ensures that all the
layers are configured for
inference rather than training.
For most layers, this doesn't matter.
But for example, if you have a dropout
layer in your model,
setting evaluation mode will
make sure it's disabled.
And when the converter encounters
operations that have been disabled,
it will treat them as
pass-through operations.
We've covered a lot of
material in this video,
but you can find even more information
in the links associated with the video,
including the Core ML Converter
documentation,
information about custom op conversion,
and many detailed TorchScript examples.
We're really excited to
provide first-class support
for converting PyTorch models.
I hope you'll find that the new
Core ML Converter will enable broader
support for your PyTorch models,
empower you to have optimized
on-device model execution,
and really provide you with
maximum support to get your
model converted easily.
Thanks for watching.